## 1.2 – Pre-development discussion - Git repo initialised

For a major software project, such as a game, the future should always be accounted for as much as possible. Therefore, we need to be prepared when something decides to break. This is where Git repositories come into play. Git repositories allow us to prepare for such events, such that when the code breaks, a previous stable version can at least be restored. Git repositories also allow us to branch out and try new features before fully committing to them. If the feature ends up not working or being fun, then we just delete the branch and revert back to the main branch built so far. 

Git repositories can also be published on a hosting platform to ensure that a backup exists. This accounts for any hardware failures that I may run into in the future. If my laptop breaks, then I will be able to access the current state of the project easily on a new device. This also allows me to share the current state of the project with other people in case people want to take part in the project. The hosting platform of my choice is GitHub. 

GitHub provides GitHub Desktop, which is an GUI application designed for beginners to make publishing the Git repositories to GitHub easier and more intuitive. **This application will not be used in the development of FAI**. Instead, I will be using the traditional CLI application mainly due to my experience with the traditional CLI application. alongside GitHub Desktop being more constrained than the traditional CLI application allowing for better management of the project.
