## 3.3 – Giving the protagonist a character - Nothing to show

For a videogame to be enjoyable, there has to be some way to ‘lose’ within the game. The most common method of implementing a way to lose within the game is to implement a version of a health system. Even Animal Crossing New Horizons, known for being a cosy life sim game, implements losses through fainting when being attacked by a tarantula, a scorpion or if you’re stung by wasps twice. Within Animal Crossing New Horizons, medicine can be bought at Nook’s Cranny to counteract the wasp’s sting giving the player a chance to heal. 

As mentioned in FAI Dev-log 3.1 (Giving the protagonist a character - Art direction), the protagonist is a robot due to artistic constraints. So let’s lean into this. Taking inspiration from Chibi-Robo!, a Nintendo Gamecube adventure game where you play as a miniature robotic assistant doing household chores, Chibi-Robo! uses energy as a health system. The player constantly has to monitor the battery usage throughout the gameplay, and has to find power outlets scattered around the house to recharge. FAI, as the protagonist is a robot as well, will similarly include a health system as energy. This means the player loses when the character reaches zero charge. The player will lose charge over time naturally in hopes to make the game feel intensive, turning the simulation game into a ‘time-attack’. Enemies and obstacles will also be implemented which will also decrease the energy level the player has. By using one health system for gradual decline and being hit by opposing hitboxes, the player is forced to find balance with being careful navigating the world and making sure they move quickly. While the script has been programmed, there are no enemies or any UI element showing the energy level of the player, meaning as of yet there is nothing to show.

However, with nothing new to show, I want to take the time to emphasise human oversight on coding. You can have a script which can behave in a desired way but there is a difference between spaghetti code and clean code. Clean code ensures stability within the codebase as variables get accessed and altered through getters and setters. Constants for magic numbers and consistent naming conventions allows for the code to become more readable. Splitting up larger functions into smaller functions and larger scripts into separate scripts (one for the health system, one for the movement, etc) allows the code to be maintainable by making it easy to find the exact piece of code which is currently failing. Having human oversight on this ensures the codebase remains clean, even if the scripts are being AI generated (which is not the case for FAI). All these benefits found in clean code, emphasise the point on why human input is still majorly important within the world of software engineering during this AI era, further signifying the importance of being knowledgeable on technical fundamentals. 
